Education;
Beal College is a small private college located in Bangor, Maine, USA. The College specializes in associate-level degree programs in business, medical, law enforcement and other high-demand service fields. Beal uses neither a semester system nor a quarter system, but rather the 8-week modular system. An academic year is divided into 6 equal terms, allowing easier entry than traditional semester programs starting only in September and January.
Founded in 1891, the College was originally named Bangor Business College but was later named after its primary founder, Mary Beal.[1] It was first located in downtown Bangor, before later moving to a larger facility in 1972. Beal moved to a new campus in 2004.
The Latin motto on Beal College's seal is "sed vitae discimus", a form of Non scholae, sed vitae discimus. This Latin phrase is apt for a career college as it translates "We do not learn for the school, but for life", meaning that one should not gain knowledge and skill to please a teacher or master, but because of the benefits they will gain in their life.
The College specializes in associate-level degree programs in business, medical, law enforcement and other high-demand service fields. Beal uses neither a semester system nor a quarter system, but rather the 8-week modular "Mod" system. An academic year is thus divided into 6 equal terms, allowing an alternative entry than traditional semester programs starting only in September and January.[2]

Beal is accredited by the Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and Schools (ACICS).[3] The Medical Assisting program is further accredited by the American Association of Medical Assistants and the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) and graduates can receive official certification status.[4]The Health Information Management program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM) and are eligible for RHIT certification. The Welding Technology Programs, Welding Test Center is accredited by the American Welding Society (AWS) which provides the students with the opportunity to obtain several Nationally recognized certifications.
Motto	Sed vitae discimus
Type	Private
Established	1891
President	Sheryl DeWalt
Academic staff
30
Students	350
Address	99 Farm Rd.
Bangor, ME 04401, Bangor, Maine, USA
44°47′10.84″N 68°47′6.77″WCoordinates: 44°47′10.84″N 68°47′6.77″W
Campus	suburban (20 acres)
Colors	Blue & Orange & Grey               
Website	www.bealcollege.eduweldcenter.bealcollege.edu