Education;
Central Maine Community College traces its origin to 1963 when the 101st Maine Legislature submitted to public referendum the question of establishing a post-secondary vocational training program in Androscoggin County. The voters of Maine gave their consent for such an institution in November, 1963, and in September, 1964, Androscoggin State Vocational Institute opened in the facilities of a former automobile dealership at 385 Main Street, Lewiston. In 1965 the State Board of Education renamed the institution Central Maine Vocational Technical Institute and in January 1966, CMVTI was moved to the present campus on Turner Street in Auburn.

The Legislature changed the name of Central Maine Vocational Technical Institute to Central Maine Technical College in 1989 to more accurately reflect CMTC's role and status as a comprehensive institution of higher education. On July 1, 2003, CMTC became Central Maine Community College, offering transfer degrees in the arts and sciences as well as career and technical programs.

During its first year, the institution enrolled 48 students in four programs (Auto Mechanics, Building Construction, Industrial Electricity, and Architectural Drafting) and was staffed by 13 persons, of whom seven were instructors. The first graduating class, consisting of six students, received diplomas in June 1965.

Currently 3000+ students are enrolled. In addition, an estimated 2,000 area residents participate each year in conferences, courses and programs offered through the Corporate and Community Services Division of the College. The students are served by approximately 150 faculty and staff members. Each year more than 300 students graduate with an associate degree, certificate or diploma.

The College offers educational opportunities for both transfer to baccalaureate programs and career preparation. Associate in arts and associate in science degrees are designed as the first two years of a more advanced degree. The associate in applied science degree, certificates, and diplomas are designed to prepare students for direct entry into the workplace.
Former names
Androscoggin State Vocational Institute, Central Maine Vocational Technical Institute, Central Maine Technical College
Type	Public, two year offering Associate and Certificate degree programs
Established	1963-1965
President	Scott E. Knapp, Ed.D.
Dean	Betsy Libby, Dean of Academic Affairs
Students	2,700
Location	Auburn, Maine, USA
44°8′3″N 70°14′6″WCoordinates: 44°8′3″N 70°14′6″W
Campus	Suburban with Residence halls that house 253 students
Athletics	Men's Basketball (winter) 2009-10 YSCC Champions, Men's Baseball (fall and spring), Men's Soccer (fall), Men's Golf (fall), Women's Softball (fall and spring), Women's Golf (fall), Women's Soccer (fall), Women's Basketball (winter), and Bowling
Nickname	CMCC
Mascot	Mustang
Website	www.cmcc.edu