Education;
College of the Atlantic (COA), founded in 1969, is a private, liberal-arts college located in Bar Harbor on Mount Desert Island, Maine, United States. It awards bachelors and masters (M.Phil.) degrees solely in the field of human ecology, an interdisciplinary approach to learning. Focus areas include arts and design, environmental sciences, humanities, international studies, sustainable food systems, and socially responsible business.
The college is small, with approximately 364 students and a full-time faculty of 35, and 15 part-time faculty. Tenets of the pedagogy include field-based or applied learning; small, seminar-style classes; student-directed projects; community involvement; and interdisciplinary learning. It was the first college to be carbon neutral and one of the first to divest fossil fuel holdings from its endowment. The college appears on most of the top "green school" lists.
The campus consists of 37 acres on Frenchman Bay, two organic farms, two off-shore island research stations, and a 100-acre protected area. The farms, Beech Hill Farm and Peggy Rockefeller Farms, are living laboratories for classes and student research. Peggy Rockefeller Farms includes livestock, crops, orchards. Beech Hill Farm provides produce. Both supply the award-winning dining hall with organic produce, eggs, and meat. The off-shore island properties include the Alice Eno Field Research Station on Great Duck Island where students conduct studies on Leach's storm petrels, guillemots, gulls, sparrows and other fields of natural history. The Edward McCormick Blair Research station on Mount Desert Rock is a center for the study of marine mammals and oceanographic issues.
The College of the Atlantic was conceived by Mount Desert Island residents who wanted to stimulate the island's economy during the off-season, when revenue from tourism declined, by forming a year-round, four-year institution of higher education.[1]
In 1968, Father James Gower, a Catholic priest and peace activist, and his former football teammate from Bar Harbor High School, businessman Les Brewer, conceived the idea for the College of the Atlantic.[2] Brewer and Gower founded the school in 1969,[1] when the school of human ecology was granted temporary approval on June 23, 1969, by the Maine State Board of Education. Three other Mount Desert residents participated in the establishment of the college - Bernard K. "Sonny" Cough, Richard Lewis and Robert Smith.[1] Edward Kaelber, then assistant dean at Harvard Graduate School of Education, became the first president and was joined in 1970 by Melville P. Cote as assistant to the President and Director of Admissions and Student Affairs.
Father James Gower proposed "Acadia Peace College" as the original name for the school, though this was rejected in favor of the College of the Atlantic.[2][1]The College of the Atlantic began offering its first classes in 1972 with an enrollment of just 32 students.[2][1] The institution now has approximately 300 students, as of the 2012–13 school year.[1] Since its establishment, the College of the Atlantic has offered only one academic major, human ecology.[2] Gower helped to create the curriculum for the college and its academic programs.[1]
The majority of the campus was purchased for $1 from the Oblate Fathers of Mary Immaculate Seminary, who used the site as a monastery.[3] Parts of the campus were also donated by the Cough family, as Bernard K. "Sonny" Cough was one of the five founders of the school.
Type	Private
Established	1969
Endowment	$46.5 million
President	Darron Collins
Undergraduates	364
Postgraduates	6
Location	Bar Harbor, Maine, USA
Campus	Rural
Avg. Class Size	12
Website	www.coa.edu