Education;
Hult International Business School is a global business school with campus locations in San Francisco, Boston, London, Dubai, Shanghai, Hertfordshire, and New York City. Hult has a student body comprising over 150 nationalities and an alumni network of over 17,000 professionals working across the globe.

In 2015, Hult merged operations with Ashridge Business School, a world-renowned thought leader and executive education provider, under the common brand "Hult International Business School". The combined school's mission is to become the world's most relevant business school to employers globally.

Hult International Business School is a non-profit 501 (c)(3) educational organization registered in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, Association of MBAs, and the AACSB. Hult is one of only seven business schools globally with both the AMBA & AACSB accredidations. The Ashridge (Bonar Law Memorial) Trust is a United Kingdom registered charity. The school has also been accredited by the British Accreditation Council of Independent Further and Higher Education.

Hult International Business School offers Undergraduate, Masters, MBA and Executive degree programs. All U.S. degrees are awarded by Hult International Business School and accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC). All U.K. degrees are awarded by the Ashridge (Bonar Law Memorial) Trust known as 'Ashridge'. From the academic year commencing September 2016, all Hult U.K. degrees will be awarded by Ashridge, subject to final Ashridge academic validation as per standard U.K. requirements.
Former names
Arthur D. Little School of Management
Motto	The Global Business School
Type	Business school
Established	1964
President	Dr. Stephen Hodges[1]
Students	3,000
Campus	Boston, USA
San Francisco, USA
London, UK
Dubai, UAE
Shanghai, China
New York City, USA
Hertfordshire, UK
Affiliations	New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC),
The Association of MBAs (AMBA),
British Accreditation Council
Website	hult.edu
