Education;
Husson University is a private university located in Bangor, Maine, offering undergraduate and graduate degrees. It has a total enrollment of approximately 3,500 students, including 750 graduate students.[3]

Husson University is the only university in Bangor, Maine. With campuses in Westbrook and Presque Isle, it has the largest physical footprint of any private university in the state.
Founded in 1898, Husson was originally named Shaw School of Business and was located on the second floor of a building in downtown Bangor. Enrollment was low until after World War II, when its reputation grew as a business school. In 1953 the Maine Legislature authorized the school, now known as Husson College, to grant Bachelor of Science degrees. It became a university in 2008.[4]

Today the University has four colleges, and two schools: the College of Business, the College of Health and Education, the College of Science and Humanities, the School of Pharmacy, and the New England School of Communications. The New England School of Communications, known by its abbreviation NESCom, was an independent school acquired[5] by Husson in 1997, and was separately accredited and operated semi-autonomously with control over its own tuition, hiring, admissions, and graduation requirements until 2014.

Since 2000, undergraduate enrollment has increased 5-10% with each incoming class. In response, the University continues to add a significant number of new faculty to its ranks. Today, students graduate having trained both in the specialties of their chosen fields and in how those fields fit into a broader cultural context.
Former names
Husson College
Motto	Character & Humility
Type	Private
Established	1898
President	Robert A. Clark, Ph.D.
Provost	Lynne Coy-Ogan, Ed.D.
Academic staff
144
Students	~3,500
Undergraduates	~2,750
Postgraduates	~750
Address	One College Cir.
Bangor, ME 04401, Bangor, with smaller campuses in Westbrook [1] and Presque Isle [2], ME, 04401, U.S.
Campus	suburban (208 acres)
Subsidiaries	New England School of Communications (NESCom)
Colors	Deep Green & Gold
Nickname	Eagles
Affiliations	NCAA DIII
Sports	www.hussoneagles.com
Mascot	Baldwin Eagle
Website	www.husson.edu